hi guys welcome to Mentor yet another
video podcast I hope you're all doing
great as always so today I have probably
the most anticipated video podcast so
far so what I'm going to tackle today is
the one that I have been getting the
most questions of out of all categories
throughout the last three months while
I've been doing this and it's How To
Succeed on an airline interview how to
succeed with your tests for getting into
an to to an airline uh what the think of
hints and so on so first of all I am
going to tell you to stay on to the end
all right I have been I'll be giving you
my points of view throughout this and
also some of the research that I've been
doing so it's crucial that you stay on
to the end to get the most out of this
uh video right um second of all I'm
going to tell you that I haven't done
many of these myself I have basically I
did the one that I was successful in and
I'm in the airline that I have been for
the last 13 years so I haven't done a
lot of different ones myself however I
have friends who have done quite a a few
of them and I'm also talking to people
that are involved in the process and
also this is very important to say I'm
not going to give you any magical key
here okay there is no magical key on how
to get through these things but there
are quite a few things that you can do
to prepare yourself and since I am
actually part of the training
organization myself I'm not going to
give you specific hints to get get into
my particular Airline okay cuz you are
going to have to succeed just like
anyone else in the selection process but
how you do that
how you get in through the selection
process it's going to be largely up to
you and it's how you prepare to get in
that's going to make the difference
between if you do it or if you don't
okay so basically Airline interviews are
like any other job interviews uh in
order to get to the interview in the
first place you have to apply for the
job so if you have your licenses you're
fresh out of school I would tell I would
tell you to apply for as many positions
as possible okay any job that you're
willing to take that's also important do
not apply for jobs that you are not
going to say yes to that's kind of a
golden rule never apply for a job that
you're not willing to take but do in the
beginning apply for every job that
you're willing to take and that you have
the hours and suitability for okay you
can go into the websites of the
different airlines they will tell you
exactly what you need every single point
that you need in order to apply and if
you can tick all those boxes then send
in an application now some Airlines they
actually charge you for sending in an
application and know some of you don't
like that I've getting some of that
feedback however I would strongly
suggest that you do it anyway because if
youve spent $100,000 on your training
what is another 50 for an application
really I mean if that's going to get you
into that jetliner it's not that big of
a deal at least that's my opinion on it
okay so apply apply for all of the jobs
you can very very important then you
wait okay um the selection process for
who comes to an interview or not is kind
of like a tumula it's impossible to say
why some of your classmates are being
called but you are not being called but
you might be called the next month or so
so just chill keep sending those um
those applications in and if you do have
some contacts networking is really
important in this business so if you do
have contacts and those contacts can
bring you in then please use all the
contacts that you might have some
Airlines have a policy where they don't
allow um employees to um to cater or to
take in their own context there there
are equal opportunities employers it
called where you're not allowed to
Canvas um in this this case if you do
have a friend that's trying to get you
into that airline that might actually um
make you un um usable for that Airline
because you have been canvased in so be
careful with that always check if the
airline has one of those um non-canvas
policies or not before you start pulling
those strings that you might have but do
apply okay that's number one apply for
as many jobs as you are eligible for so
then you get that letter that precious
letter from the employer saying that we
would like you to come for an interview
with us now here is where you start to
if you haven't already you have to start
preparing okay first of all if you go
for any kind of Airline interview and
goes for any kind of job interview
whether it is working for McDonald's or
working for uh British Airways you'll
have to look the part okay so you want
to make sure that you have a nice suit
that you have it doesn't have to be
expensive you just have to suit you you
just have to look good okay make sure
that you are well groomed uh that you
look the part basically because
obviously you know the interviewers are
people they are going to make a snap
judgment of you when you walk in through
the door you want to make sure that that
Jud m is a good one so make sure that
you look the part okay that goes for
anything even inter for jobs within an
airline that you work for you still have
to make sure that you are looking good
because you're showing respect for the
employers by by showing that you really
want a job and looking good then then
once you're in um different airlines
have different test batteries okay so
some Airlines have several days of test
that you need to go through that
includes um psychometric testings it
might include group exercises it will
definitely include an interview and it
will probably be a simulator test at
some part as well okay if we start by
psych psychometric testing so what are
psychometric testings um there is a lot
of information available on the internet
when it comes to this you just have to
type in psychometric testing in Google
and you'll get a lot of different um
websites that you can into basically two
types of psychometric testings it's your
personality test you will almost always
get a personality test and that can be
done online or in some cases it's done
in paper form when you're in um on the
day for the
interview uh the personality tests they
tend to be questions that doesn't have a
right or wrong answer to it so it might
be questions where you know you get a
questions like so choose one do you
prefer staying at home reading a book or
go out to a party right there's no right
wrong question or answer to that or or
do you prefer a uh being sent out into
war zone or B um staying with general
population in a shelter you know like it
will indicate something in your
personality normally it's Extremes in
your personality okay and it's generally
very very hard to choose these questions
now my tip here is that first of all
practice these tests online go out do a
couple of them and I don't mean practice
as to try to find the right answers
because the answers what's the right
answer in one Airline might be the wrong
answer in a different Airline so go out
and practice them for for you to feel
confident or comfortable with the way
that the questions are being asked so
that you're are not um being surprised
by The Format as such just do a few so
that you know what kind of questions to
expect okay and then and this is the
single most important tip I have answer
honestly whatever you feel when you read
the question you take the one that you
feel most for okay because they are
built generally there are hundreds of
these questions and they will all
indicate towards a certain personality
type and the airlines they choose what
kind of personality types they like okay
depending on what kind of operations
they have and so on so just be as honest
as possible and they will find out
throughout those 200 questions they will
find out what kind of personality you
are so just be honest take the one that
you feel is correct and if you don't
understand the question you skip that
question okay so just continue work
through that one do not try to second
guess what you think the airline want to
just put in what you think what you want
and that will then show the airline what
kind of personality type you are and
it's really important okay so that's the
one type that's the personality test the
uh second part of the psychometric
testing tends to be aptitude and ability
tests this is what people are mostly uh
nervous about when you're going in for
interviews okay so there are different
type of aptitude tests you might have a
verbal tests you might have numerical
tests you would probably have those ones
spatial reasoning now spatial reasoning
that's uh tests that will indicate um
how you perceive the environment around
you so can you read a map can you see
which pictures are kind of mirror images
of each other can you see what would fit
into a box and what wouldn't fit into a
box it's things like that and the U
spatial reasoning tests they tend to
test a lot lot of things including your
logical thinking including your
mathematical skills stuff like that so
they are really important uh and also
there might be job specific tests now I
did job specific tests myself I was put
into what was called a Nas test which
was me sitting sweating for 4 hours in
inside of a box which simulated
different Aviation scenarios
mathematical reasoning tests and things
on different screens okay the only thing
you can do here is try to do this to the
best of your capability now in order to
um to prepare yourself for these tests I
would say go out and do as many online
tests as possible okay look for
psychometric testing look for aptitude
and ability tests and you'll find a uh a
complete hoorde of these tests available
online do as many as possible of them uh
you know cuz these things you you will
not you know the more you do them the
more familiar you will be with the way
that they're done you will see that
there will be you know like complete the
series test where you have three
different images and you're supposed to
choose what the next image should be
after those three out of maybe four
different um Alternatives there are
things like that there are mathematical
skills tests these tests generally are
done on time as well so do them work
through them
in in a Brisk Pace but an accurate way
okay uh don't try to correct to to guess
what the correct answer is if you don't
know um practice them as I've said and
and also and this this is very very
important now read the instructions to
the test carefully before you start
right this is I can't emphasize this
enough before you start a test make sure
that you read the instructions because
sometimes the instruction might be the
key to solving the whole test all right
so read the instructions carefully what
work through it accurately briskly
practice as many you can before you go
to the interview and uh don't try to
guess the correct answers if you don't
know all right so those that it's you
know here you can actually improve by
practicing so I would suggest that
before you start even applying for
Airlines start doing a few of this just
do one a day or do a couple of week or
something like that in order to just get
that type of thinking going so uh those
are the different types of psychometric
tests there might be others out there
that I haven't heard about as well but
you know this is the gist this what
they're trying to do here is weeding out
people that are not suitable for the
particular Airline so specific
personality type or and also people that
might lack the ability that is needed in
order to go through the course okay so
that's psychometric testing that's
generally day uh done on day one uh then
if you pass this test you're generally
sent in for an airline
interview um now the interview here you
will also find loads and loads of
information on the internet on what's
right and wrong to do at an interview um
I would say just use your common sense
when it comes to the interview okay so
the airline will want to employ a people
that they are able to train okay so that
you have the ability to take in the
information that is given to you and
apply it so they want to make sure that
they not Tak in someone will will not be
able to go through a typew rating for
example so when you go go into the
interview as I said before make sure
you're well dressed uh I would also take
any papers that you might need so your
CVS your school leaving certificates
your uh licenses nicely um copied and in
a folder to make sure that you have them
available if case they would ask for
them right I will make sure to know the
airline that I'm applying to so uh read
up what you can on the airline before
you go for the interview you know check
what kind of fleets they have what type
of operation they're doing are they
flying long hole or they're flying a mix
of long hole and short hole and medium
hole maybe they're doing cargo you know
what kind of you know how many cargo
planes do they have versus their their
um the normal personal jet
liners
um what kind of operation do they do so
because you you might get questions
about this like what you like on certain
parts of the company and stuff you might
not to but it's always good to know what
kind of airline that you're going into
when you're going into an interview
process
right um second of all make sure that
you know your own aircraft type so the
types that you have been flying so far
it might not you know you might not
think that it's important when it comes
into doing an interview for flying a a
Boeing 737 however for the interviewer
to understand whether or not you know
what you have done so far that you've
learn learn what you've done so far
they're likely to ask you questions
about you know so what's the diamond
like what's the Cessna like so what kind
of flaps does the Cessna have does it
have Fowler flaps what what kind of
flaps does it use um can you tell me a
little bit about the handling
characteristics of it um so what kind of
speeds are you using during the base leg
and final with different flap settings
things like that just know what you're
doing so far because it's likely that
they will ask you questions about it and
they just want to see that you have a
good comprehension of what you have
learned so far in your training because
that's a good indication of if you are
going to be able to adapt and learn the
next part which is going to be the
training for the airline
so uh also be honest this goes through
the whole interview process and all the
tests be honest okay the interview is
they want to know like I've said before
if you can go through the uh the
training that's number one number two
two is is this person likely to be able
to take command later on because most
Airlines they don't employ first
officers they employ potential captains
so they want to make sure that they get
personality types that are you know good
assertive knows their and also and
this is really really crucial they are
employing future
colleagues all right I can't overstate
the importance of that they're important
they are employing people that they will
sit and work with that they might have
to sit during a 12-hour days with storms
all over Europe and they have to work
with this person so you have to be
likable you know not fake likable but
you have to be open honest being able to
keep a conversation up and uh you know
just show good common sense that's what
you're looking for a nice person just
like you would if you would be employing
let's say that you had your own company
and you wanted to employ a f a future
workmate
what would you like that person to be
like okay think of that and you know
work on that that's what they want they
want to be able to laugh with you you
should be able to to tell a joke when
it's appropriate you know it it's normal
things like this I know it's really hard
when you're very very nervous but really
just try to relax and think about the
the person interviewing you as another
colleague as a friend of yours you know
that's asking you relevant questions
about the future job that's the way to
think about it relax reled and in a good
and professional manner
okay it might be a good idea uh and I'm
saying might here because it's not
always to check with other people who's
done interviews before to see what the
formance is like however I am personally
a little bit against being biased when
you go into interviews because generally
depending on who is doing the interview
the interview be slightly different if
you go out on internet and you search
for interviews for this particular
Airline you might get answers that
people think were good and people think
were bad but you don't really know and
something that I really want to
emphasize is do not use canned
answers can answers that that's answers
that people give when they think that
interview or interviewer want to hear a
specific thing but it doesn't actually
answer the question those kind of
answers just will make you look stupid
okay it's not good you want to give an
honest answer and if you don't know you
say that you don't know it's as easy as
that you don't want to try to
your way through because remember this
guy or girl who's doing the interview is
likely to have seen thousands of people
like you before and they've heard the
same answers being repeated over and
over again it's more likely that they
will remember you if you get a an a
unique honest answer to a question than
if you're saying that the reason you
want to be a pilot is because you have
dreamed about that since you were a
small kid you know maybe they want to
hear yeah I think that that will give me
the best um the best future prospects I
really like the way that this Airline uh
gives the possibility to be based in a
specific place where I can have a good
family life and I think that this is you
know give something that you actually
think not something that you think they
want to hear this is this is very
important because a lot of people forget
this when they go into the um to the
interview
process um but that's it use your common
sense make sure that you're well
prepared that you know your current air
um aircrafts what you've done before in
your training and and just answer
honestly to the questions that you get
okay now then there might be group
exercises as well um so this is
something that some of the major
airlines us um in order to just see how
you work in a group environment um some
Airlines have cocktail parties which are
part of the the actual selection process
to see how you interact in a group and
some people have some Airlines have
actual group exercises where you get in
together with other people applying for
the same job and you get an exercise to
complete uh here it's once again it's
very hard to say what's the correct
thing to do okay but it's um it's likely
that you will be getting a piece of
information for example that you
supposed to share with the rest of the
group and then you'll be getting a
problem and you you know you work your
way through the group and everyone
present their own opinion their own um
fact now it's important here to show
that you are both willing to listen to
the rest of the group to take in the
information of the rest of the group and
also that you can Advocate your own uh
information in a good way because it's
being monitored they probably want to
see a person that is very good at
communicating and very good at working
together with the rest of the group and
does not kind of take over the group but
doesn't stay silent in the corner either
so this is it's hard I I would just try
to do your best you know just if you
have a piece of information share it
discuss with the others try to do to
solve the the uh puzzle or the problem
that you have received in as good of a
way you can and then you know the result
will come out of that it's it's there's
no way of knowing that you have to do
this you have to say that no no you just
have to do the best you can and
hopefully that will be good enough for
you to get through that it's the same
with the cocktail party have fun you
know meet up speak to people talk about
do not take over the group do not make
you know that don't get drunk you know
just use your common sense and act like
it would in any social environment and
that should be good right so as you can
see there are you know it's mostly
fluent this there's no like right or
wrong things and you don't want to look
for right or wrong um answers here
either because that's not what this is
about remember that the whole point of
doing an airline interview is for the
airline to establish whether you are
right for that Airline or right for that
job so when you're trying to game the
system that won't help neither you
because you might find yourself in a job
that you're not actually capable of
doing or the airline because they might
employ someone who shouldn't really be
there okay so be well prepared all the
paperwork ready well dressed Well Suited
um you have you know your own um
previous training you know what you
should do your etpl exams and stuff
should be fairly um recent in your
memory anyway you know the airline that
you're going into so you can answer
intelligently on any questions they
might have like what kind of Base would
you like things like that
but generally just make sure that you're
well rested and that you've eaten a
nutritious meal before okay don't go
there without having slept the day
before or without having a good
breakfast and stuff because you'll need
the sugar in your system in order to
perform well it goes through all of your
training later on as well but definitely
for the interview and get yourself a
nice sleep you know that that's that's
it I know it's really hard I know you're
going to be nervous and stuff but it's
not the end of the world you're going to
have if you fail on one you're going to
have more Airline interviews coming
coming up so and if you know any Airline
interview that you go through is going
to be a great experience for you um so
if you won't if the airline says no
thank you at the end of it at least you
have one more interview in your pocket
so next time you go into an interview
you will be more confident about what's
coming and you'll hopefully be less
nervous that's the way to look at it and
I hope this has been helpful um sending
questions but as I said most of the
information is out there on the internet
do practice the psych electrical
testings because that will make you at
least feel a little bit more at ease
about the tests when they come in the
interview and best of luck I hope that
you're all successful in whatever
Endeavor that you do it's great to have
you here and see you next time